In the world of Avira, Witches are magic users whose magic comes from a position of power and responsibility they hold over the natural world, a bit similar to spirits.
Witches usually are called to positions in the world that both match to their personalities, and need representation. The stronger the force of nature is under their care, the stronger the witch is. 

As all magic in this world, witches magic comes from the Kamihara. However, unlike sorcery, it is not only gained by traveling there. A magical station is granted to someone in one of the following ways:
- **It is passed down from a previous witch.** If the witch's position already exists in this world, the witch can choose to pass it down to an apprentice. This is usually done through training, but can also be done in other magical ways that involves grasping onto the heart of the magical source itself. 
- **Creating the position.** If the witch's position does not exist, a person can create a new station of witchcraft, dedicating themselves to protecting a natural aspect or theme of the world in one of the following ways:
	- **Dying protecting or fighting for the aspect they will represent.** This is the most common way a person becomes a witch, and is how people became witches before the first pilgrimages to the Kamihara. Dying for the aspect they are fighting for attracts the attention of the first witch, Mori, the Witch of Life and Death, Mother of Witches. If Mori deems a witch's passion fierce and their fight strong, she may guide the magic that naturally lies in that theme of the world to find its way to the new witch to aid in their survival, and letting them continue forth with the responsibility of protecting that way of life.
	- **Pilgrimage to the Kamihara.** Some people with strong attachment and passion for a part of the world were so moved by their passion that they made a pilgrimage to the Kamihara to gain magic to protect that aspect of the world. The people who did had different experiences than those who simply aimed to become sorcerers, as almost all those who were to become witches felt at home in the Kamihara, with the magic they sought finding them naturally. 

	 In both ways, the witch's power came from the magic of what they represented finding its way to the user and becoming nested in them, with the user now holding the responsibility of protecting whatever they were now to protect in order to keep that position. In the first option, the magic was guided by Mori, the first witch, and in the second option, the new witch was in the Kamihara, having almost a beacon to call the magic towards them.

